docker-ce 24.0.7 release (#18528)
docker/docs: content/engine/release-notes/24.0.md

- Deprecated and removed features, see [Deprecated Engine Features](../deprecated.md).
- Changes to the Engine API, see [Engine API version history](../api/version-history.md).

## 24.0.7

{{< release-date date="2023-10-26" >}}

For a full list of pull requests and changes in this release, refer to the relevant GitHub milestones:

- [docker/cli, 24.0.7 milestone](https://github.com/docker/cli/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A24.0.7)
- [moby/moby, 24.0.7 milestone](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A24.0.7)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

* Ensure that overlay2 layer metadata is correct. [moby/moby#46703](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46703)

> * Fix "Rootful-in-Rootless" Docker-in-Docker on systemd versions 250 and later. [moby/moby#46626](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46626)

Author: ```suggestion
* Fix "Rootful-in-Rootless" Docker-in-Docker on systemd version 250 and later. [moby/moby#46626](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46626)
```

* Fix `docker.socket` not getting disabled when uninstalling the `docker-ce` RPM package. [docker/docker-ce-packaging#852](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce-packaging/pull/852)
* Fix `dockerd-rootless-setuptools.sh` when username contains a backslash. [moby/moby#46407](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46407)
* Fix a bug that would prevent network sandboxes to be fully deleted when stopping containers with no network attachments and when `dockerd --bridge=none` is used. [moby/moby#46702](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46702)
* Fix a bug where context cancellation could interrupt container restart. [moby/moby#46697](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46697)

> * Fix an issue where libnetwork would accept a ChildSubnet with a bigger mask than its parent subnet. [moby/moby#46482](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46482)

Author: Are these two summaries ok? wasn't sure what to put here

Reviewer: The linked issue was https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6870

So it looks like; failing to start a container when providing a ` --ip-range` with a mask that is larger than its parent subnet (or something along those lines? I'm not good at this either 🙈)

* Fix data corruption with zstd output. [moby/moby#46709](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46709)
* Fix the conditions under which the container's MAC address is applied. [moby/moby#46478](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46478)
* Improve the performance of the stats collector. [moby/moby#46448](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46448)

### Packaging updates

* Add support for Fedora 39 and Ubuntu 23.10. [docker/docker-ce-packaging#940](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce-packaging/pull/940), [docker/docker-ce-packaging#955](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce-packaging/pull/955)

> * Upgrade BuildKit to [`v0.11.7`](https://github.com/moby/buildkit/releases/v0.11.7). [moby/moby#46441](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46441)

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/moby/buildkit/releases/v0.11.7 is a 404 page and v0.11.7 does not seem to exist in the releases section,

Reviewer: Ah! Yes, this is a vendor update from the v0.11 release branch; the BuildKit project only tags releases for the latest release branch, but does accept backports to previous release-branches. In such cases go modules invents a new version.

Perhaps we should update the description to describe the problem it fixes (leaving the fact that the go module dependency was updated as an implementation detail); the related issue is briefly described in https://github.com/moby/buildkit/pull/4014 (I'm not sure if there's a related bug-report / ticket)

* Upgrade Go to `go1.20.10`. [docker/docker-ce-packaging#951](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce-packaging/pull/951)

> * Upgrade containerd binary to `v1.7.6`. [moby/moby#46103](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46103)

Reviewer: We can use the same wording as for 24.0.6; this one is affecting the static binaries only;

```markdown
* Upgrade containerd to `v1.7.6` (static binaries only). [moby/moby#46103](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46103)
```

> * Upgrade the `containerd.io` package to `v1.6.24`.

Author: Wasn't sure where to point these links to (and didn't find one for containerd.io)

Reviewer: I think it's fine to not link to a commit, but we can link the containerd version to their release-notes; https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.6.24

- Deprecated and removed features, see [Deprecated Engine Features](../deprecated.md).
- Changes to the Engine API, see [Engine API version history](../api/version-history.md).

## 24.0.7

{{< release-date date="2023-10-27" >}}

For a full list of pull requests and changes in this release, refer to the relevant GitHub milestones:

- [docker/cli, 24.0.7 milestone](https://github.com/docker/cli/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A24.0.7)
- [moby/moby, 24.0.7 milestone](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A24.0.7)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

> * Ensure that overlay2 layer metadata is correct. [moby/moby#46703](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46703)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Write overlay2 layer metadata atomically. [moby/moby#46703](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46703)
```

* Fix "Rootful-in-Rootless" Docker-in-Docker on systemd version 250 and later. [moby/moby#46626](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46626)

> * Fix `docker.socket` not getting disabled when uninstalling the `docker-ce` RPM package. [docker/docker-ce-packaging#852](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce-packaging/pull/852)

Reviewer: We could consider putting this one under "Packaging updates"

* Fix `dockerd-rootless-setuptools.sh` when username contains a backslash. [moby/moby#46407](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46407)
* Fix a bug that would prevent network sandboxes to be fully deleted when stopping containers with no network attachments and when `dockerd --bridge=none` is used. [moby/moby#46702](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46702)

> * Fix a bug where context cancellation could interrupt container restart. [moby/moby#46697](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46697)

Reviewer: Either is fine, as this is somewhat technical either way, but we could describe this as "cancelling the API request" (context cancellation effectively means that the request was cancelled; in this case, before the restart completed).

> * Fix an issue where containers would fail to start when providing `--ip-range` with a mask larger than its parent subnet. [docker/for-mac#6870](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6870)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fix an issue where containers would fail to start when providing `--ip-range` with a range larger than the subnet. [docker/for-mac#6870](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6870)
```

Reviewer: Thanks! I was struggling with the right terminology here when I suggested changes
